DRAFT Generic Set of DCC Browser Based Requirements

Purpose

A.	To ensure the basic DCC ICT requirements are checked by the business before they procure their own software when ICT Services are not involved with the procurement. 
B.	As a basis for the development of detailed requirements for a new system when ICT Service are working with the business area to procure the best system. 

During the tender process the term ‘Supplier’ refers to the tenderer.

Version History

Version & Date	Author	Changes	ITM sign off & date
Original	M Howitt	Original	
V0.1 30/09/13	D Demeger, G Cregan	Generic requirements created based on the Highways Management System tender	
V0.2 04/10/13	Ditto	Reviewed by Phil Barry, Caroline Hitchcock for the children’s assessment system (DAT) and Martin Howitt	Martin Howitt 04/10/13 on basis that this is a draft for DAF use only. A shorter, more usable version will be developed.


B3	General Requirements

a)	The system must act as the Authority’s XXXYYY. 
b)	The application must capture and store details in a consistent manner.
c)	Added value beyond the features and facilities described in the specification should be demonstrated as part of the contract.
d)	The application must be user friendly, intuitive and the screens/interfaces should be universally familiar to anyone who regularly uses the internet and require minimal training to use.
e)	The application should streamline processes, i.e. no duplication of the inputting of information.
f)	The application must be ready to integrate at no extra cost with all other DCC systems holding related service data.
g)	The application must be capable of phased implementation on a function by function basis over a period of time, should this be necessary.
h)	The application must enable the Authority to fully comply with the Data Protection Act 1998.
i)	The supplier must demonstrate a commitment to shaping the application in response to emerging technologies through a product roadmap or similar.
j)	The application should work with social media, if applicable.

B3.1 	Technical Architecture

In order to maximise the reuse of data, software, process and service components it is expected that the layers that comprise the system will be decoupled from each other as shown in diagram 1.0 below. The scope of this procurement is expected to be broadly limited to parts of the central three layers shown – databases, web services, and process management.

Diagram 1.0 shows the external supporting functions that need to enable, or be enabled by, the new system. Specifically:-

a)	The system must use standards-based web services to communicate internally and externally.
b)	The system must integrate with other applications related to the service, and be intuitive to guide the user through the processes.
c)	The system must utilise mobile technology and be as functional on mobile platforms as on desktop or tablet form-factor devices. 
d)	The system must be easily cross referenced with other systems and the data available for dynamic access by other systems.
e)	The system must be hosted on public cloud infrastructure with no client device dependencies beyond browser compatibility.
f)	The system should utilise standard Data Warehousing and Business Intelligence infrastructure to enable reports to be created.

B3.2	Remote Access

Secure access to user session "shadowing" tools may be permitted if they can be implemented in compliance with standard local government security compliance requirements. 

B3.3	Desktop Applications

Microsoft Office is the approved integrated office suite incorporating word processing, spreadsheet, diary/calendar and graphics facilities.  Currently the Authority utilises Microsoft Office 2010.
a)	Where office integration is necessary the system should integrate into individual Microsoft applications. E.g. Outlook to follow task from the application, but it is preferred that Workflow tools should be independent from email in operation to allow maximum device and platform interoperability.

B3.4	Groupware / Internet

Microsoft Office Outlook (currently 2010) is the approved groupware software.  
a)	Internet Explorer is the standard corporate browser at present and the proposed system must cope with subsequent upgrades.

B3.5	‘e-GIF’ Standards (e-Government Interoperability Framework) and other standards

The e-Government Interoperability Framework (e-Gif) sets out Government policies and standards for achieving interoperability and seamless information across Government (including local government). The Authority is mandated to introduce the standards set out in the framework for all new systems, or other systems, which are part of electronic service delivery and will need to comply with the standards. 

A full copy of the directive can be obtained from:-
 http://webarchive.nationalarchives.gov.uk/20101125071500/http://www.cabinetoffice.gov.uk/media/253452/eGIF%20v6_1(1).pdf.
a)	The system ought to also be compliant with W3C Web standards and the Supplier will need to state which level of WCAG standards (A, AA, or AAA) the product adheres to.
b)	The system ought also to be compliant with OASIS standards WSRP 1.0, WSRP 2.0 and Java Community Process open standards JSR-168 and JSR-286 if appropriate.

B3.6	Software Requirements

This section defines the Authority ‘Software Requirements’.  The order in which the requirements are listed should not be taken by The Supplier as an indication as to their relative priority and/or importance.
a)	The software must ensure any information entered is retained if any device runs out of power or hibernates.
b)	The application must hold full functionality to include all applicable standards requirements..
c)	The Supplier must provide details of any software licence agreements and service level agreements that you propose.

B3.7	Provision of Software Upgrades

The Supplier must indicate whether they hold any approved quality assurance accreditation for the development and implementation of their proposed software.  If formal accreditation exists The Supplier must state what this is and to which areas they apply.  Where no quality assurance accreditation's are held, The Supplier must describe what measures they have taken to achieve an acceptable level of quality for development and implementation. 

B3.8	Planned Product Enhancements and Development Strategy

The Supplier must state whether or not the Authority may be forced to accept software modules/facilities which may not be relevant to the Authority requirements.  The Supplier must state their policy in relation to release levels of application software, underlying database or file management software and operating system software. Any plans for upgrading any of these items and any resultant cost implications to the Authority should also be included.

The Supplier, if successful, will be required to guarantee that their proposed software will continue to be developed and enhanced to meet future statutory/legislative/regulatory changes associated with this type of software, and that this will be made available within the timescales as dictated by the legislation. The legislation in this instance will be as dictated by the relevant authoritative bodies. Ongoing development, support and maintenance of the Supplier software and any associated third party software included in their proposal must be guaranteed for a minimum period of 7 (seven) years from the ‘Acceptance Date’.

The Supplier must provide a statement of their policy for undertaking service modifications requested by the Authority. This should include the formal methods which are acceptable for requesting changes using quality management (change controls etc). The Supplier should also state their policy on providing customisation for individual customers such as the Authority, and whether any customisation is required to meet the Authority requirements outlined in this tender. The Supplier must also state how they ensure that such modifications are in relation to subsequent product releases. They should also comment on their responsiveness to user requests for amendments by users.  

B3.9	Release Methodology

The Supplier must state the availability or otherwise of a program suite to automatically create test data, and if so how this would be undertaken, and if this would incur additional cost. If such a program suite is not available, alternative arrangements to create test data must be specified. 

The Supplier must state how they will certify that all releases of software, including enhancements, are virus free.

B3.10	Open/Integration Standards

The Supplier must provide evidence that the proposed software and communications system comply with all current ISO and European standards in respect of Open Systems Interconnection. If proprietary gateways are used, these products must be clearly indicated, described and costed. The Supplier must be able to demonstrate their adherence to all relevant standards in a suitable environment.

a)	The application must have functionality to allow for the consumption of Web Services provided by other applications. 

b)	The application should use XML as the primary file format standard in data integration contexts, and allow the use of fixed format, (e.g. PDF etc.) and CSV formats for these purposes.

c)	The application should expose rich web services capabilities to allow other third party software to integrate and to allow many of the system’s functions to be orchestrated externally to itself. Web services should be based on RESTful architectural principles or SOAP, UDDI and/or WSDL. These services must be protected using username and passwords.  The username must indicate what information can be served using the web service, in accordance with the user’s role and permissions.

d)	The application must allow data to be shared and transferred to and from other systems used by the service, and partners, and citizens as appropriate.

e)	The application should support open systems and linked data, and take account of the open public services agenda http://www.openpublicservices.cabinet office.gov.uk/  and the code of recommended practice for local authorities on data transparency

B3.11	Workstations and Hardware

It is proposed that End user devices will be purchased by the Authority under separate standing contract arrangements which the Authority has setup with other suppliers.  However, the Supplier should provide both minimum and recommended specifications for such devices in order that the Authority can evaluate and cost the requirements of supporting the proposed solution, including any software version prerequisites. This information should be provided assuming that a ‘thin client’ solution will be used in conjunction with Data Capture Devices (DCDs) and/or laptops.

Details provided should include minimum and recommended processor speed, memory, hard disk size and screen size, along with any other relevant information. 

The Supplier must provide details of all computer hardware and peripherals that they consider necessary to provide the services required by this contract.

B3.12	Hardware & Software Warranties

The Supplier must define:-
a)	Warranty terms and conditions for all elements of hardware and software which they propose;
b)	Policy regarding acceptance of support and maintenance responsibilities for the total system. Elements of software and hardware supplied by third parties should also be described;
c)	Policy relating to the correction of any application or systems software faults detected.

B3.13	Support & Maintenance Contract

a)	The Supplier must define the levels and type of user support services they will offer for:-
i.	Operating Systems and Utilities;
ii.	The Supplier’s Software;
iii.	Third Party Software proposed by the Supplier;
iv.	Ongoing Support & Maintenance Services for the above including costs. 

b)	The Supplier must provide a copy of their standard support & maintenance contract documentation.  

B3.14	Software Maintenance

The Supplier must provide details of proposed software maintenance arrangements for the system. This should include:-

a)	A description of software maintenance services must be provided;
b)	The Supplier is required to state their policy regarding the release of new and upgrade software, and what the formal procedure would be in notifying the Authority of these.  Please include a copy of the software development strategy for the software with your response;
c)	The Supplier is required to state whether, if the Authority decides not to implement an upgrade or new release, the existing version will continue to be supported, and if so, for how long.
d)	The Supplier must clearly define what constitutes an upgrade.
e)	A description of any ESCROW agreement that is in place to cover the security of proposed applications or systems software, all application data and backups, or an indication of willingness to enter into a contract with the Council’s preferred ESCROW management supplier.

B3.15	Resource Requirements of the Authority I.T. Resource

The Supplier must state in a clear and concise manner what would be expected of the Authority/Partner I.T. resource during implementation and afterwards with respect to supporting and maintaining the proposed software.  This information regarding responsibilities should be provided under the separate headings of Software Development, Hardware & Infrastructure and Other.

B3.16	Web Site Access, Interfaces & websites in the wider system of partners and suppliers as appropriate

a)	The application must be WEB based allowing the online submission of information and service requests by citizens, and displaying selected information held within the application on Internet WEB pages.  
b)	Users must be able to access the application using web browsing software from any internet enabled computer but in line with the security arrangements set out in this specification.   
c)	Web access must be via browsing software to current versions of plus two previous of the three most used UK browsers as a minimum.
d)	Internet facing pages must be constructed to the Authority’s framework standards (HTML, CSS, e-GIF compliant) and the supplier must provide, or allow the authority to arrange the testing to provide, evidence of IT health checks by approved testers, such as penetration testing by a CHECK accredited security testing company, before production systems are released. The need for evidence of security of data will not be charged to the authority.
e)	The application must record data relating to the Authority’s ICT Inventory and Assets in such a way that will allow the Authority to comply with the Equalities Act 2010.
f)	The application must be a web application allowing access from a standard PC or mobile device using standard internet platforms. 
g)	The proposed system should be built to enable the ongoing addition of a further range of services and should take account of future Authority developments, e.g. Citizens Account creation and Smartcard provision.
h)	The system should be able to automatically identify and direct information to identified third parties. 
i)	The application will need to interface with SharePoint sites under the control of both DCC and DCC partners and contractors, where applicable.	
j)	The application must include automatic allocation of tasks to an individual or organisation through workflow management.


B3.20	Data Requirements 

B3.20.1	Management of Data

a)	The application must prevent concurrent updates of data, or duplication of data.
b)	The application must provide a means to archive, retrieve and destroy data according to the Data Governance retention standards.
c)	The application must conform to Authority data standards as defined elsewhere in this ITT document and subsequent Agreement.
d)	The application must provide separate fields for holding surnames and forenames.
e)	All dates to be entered/displayed/reported consistently in a UK format.
f)	Archiving control should reside under the control of the Authority System Administrator and not require additional cost.
g)	The application should permit concurrent access to records by multiple users and transactional support, whilst maintaining the integrity of the data by means of record locking or managing that concurrent record access.
h)	Databases containing personally identifiable data should be held within the EU or otherwise comply with the regulations of the Data Protection Act in respect of their jurisdiction.
i)	There must be a facility to control user access and permissions for all aspects of the system.
j)	The user must be prompted for all mandatory fields and the software must enforce validation using, where available, data indexes and master data management.
k)	The application should have function to carry out a “false run” of importing data to test the validation and load routine, if applicable.

B3.20.2	Data Analysis and Presentation

a)	The system must integrate with core DCC analysis tools: ClearCore, SharePoint and Business Intelligence infrastructure, as appropriate.
b)	The system must meet the user requirements for on-screen analysis.
c)	The system must allow users comprehensive functions to search, filter and retrieve any of the metadata and display results through the interface. 
d)	The system must have the functionality to provide alerts both proactive and reactive to all users, including customers.

B3.21	Electronic Document and Records Management (EDRM)
a)	DCC’s corporate document management system is Sharepoint 2013 on Office 365.  It is strongly preferred that the solution uses this facility as its main document depository.
b)	DCC’s corporate electronic records management system is TRIM and the system should integrate with this.  
c)	The system must allow a selection of different documents types to be stored, managed, referenced to the core system and easily retrieved. 
d)	The system should allow a single document lifecycle (Create/ Store -> Checkout -> Check-in -> Store/ Up-issue). Document lifecycles/workflows should be configurable and audited
e)	The up-issue process should be versatile enough to allow different file types (MIME types) to be checked back-in.
f)	The system should allow users to download the files to the PC and attach them to email. Alternatively, the application should allow the function of ‘export as email’ for read-only copies.
g)	Documents should be identified through associated document type metadata. The document should also provide for free text.
h)	The metadata and free text should be searchable.
i)	Data storage may be provided independently. 

B3.22	Report Writing 


a)	The application must be compatible with the DCC data warehousing and business intelligence infrastructure (currently projected to be based on SQL Server Reporting Services in SQL Server 2012 by the time any migration occurs).
b)	Resource should be made available as part of the Supplier’s response to assist with the creation of data queries for use in SQLSRS based on the target solution databases and for linking with other datasets of interest within DCC.
c)	Resource should be made available as part of the Supplier’s response for training in the data queries created as above.
d)	Suppliers should outline a strategy to improve data quality within the system of technology, process and people that would result from the implementation of their successful bid. 
e)	The system must have the ability to schedule and print a report, standard letters, documents/forms, containing pre-defined information in a suitable format.
f)	In the short term, a fixed number of standard reports will need to be included with the system either in build or using a discrete product.
g)	The application must provide report writing tools (in a range of formats) to enable users to write, save and export bespoke reports. 
h)	The application must have the ability to generate a range of documents:-
i.	Financial reports,
ii.	Performance reports,
iii.	Reports to satisfy Freedom of Information and Subject Access Request procedures.

B3.23	Security Requirements 
 
B3.23.1	Password/security Control

a)	DCC complies with the PSN code of connection which dictates broad technical security standards across the Council’s network. Security standards for the application need to broadly comply with this standard in the limited domain where they are appropriate. More information can be found at https://www.gov.uk/public-services-network.
b)	Authentication for the application may be standalone or via DCC’s Active Directory to enable single sign-on. Potential future solutions for single sign-on by DCC staff and partners should also be accommodated where possible.
c)	The application must allow for more than one system administrator and identify by user id when any changes to security are made.  Each system administrator will have their own unique user id.
d)	The application must allow security access profiles to be set-up and maintained for each individual user either by restricting access to certain data/screens and functions or allowing access or a combination of both. 
e)	The ability within the application to restrict access to a user’s own data/records and must not provide access to persons who are not defined as system users.
f)	The application must allow security profiles to be copied, so that they can be used for other users for whom the same rights are required.
g)	The application must allow users to change their own passwords.  Passwords can be reset by administrators if forgotten.
h)	The application must restrict the number of failed attempts to access the system to three.  
i)	All communications between servers and client devices should be encrypted using well-known ciphers with symmetric encryption keys of at least 128 bits in length. 
j)	 Applications must be penetration tested by a CHECK-accredited security testing company annually and if significant changes are made to the system. If such a test has been recently performed, a copy of the test result must be made available. If no such test has been performed, the supplier must consent to such a test being performed on their software and any contracts or purchase agreements will be conditional on a successful outcome to the test with any faults or security vulnerabilities found in the security testing being corrected by the supplier at no additional cost to DCC. If such a test is necessary, the contractor should accept that the cost of that test will be added to the total cost of each application for tender evaluation purposes.

B3.23.2	Access Restrictions 
The application must provide the following user access restrictions:-

a)	Logon: Multiple logins using a single user id must not be permitted. Guest access, for example to be used by members of the public, may be used but should not be able to materially alter the system.
b)	Records: The application must allow control of access to records for individual users by restricting/ allowing access at a specified level e.g. department, location, etc.  This being set up within the individual's security profile.
c)	Data/Field: The application must allow control of access to data within records.  The type of access allowed must include enquiry only, data entry or no access at all. The application must allow fields to be designated as mandatory at the discretion of the user.
B3.23.3	Security Exceptions

The application should not require the overriding of rules in exceptional circumstances however if this should prove necessary then the system must retain records of historical rules to maintain the integrity of existing data.


B3.24	Audit Trail

The application must include a comprehensive audit trail with the following features:-

a)	The audit trail must log ALL input indicating the time, user id and date of entry.  Detailed system control can then be obtained by staff checking each individual transaction reported on the audit trail.  The computer report must be sufficiently detailed to follow a transaction made on the system indicating the full extent of the change made.  The report must include field name or element name, original data (if applicable), new data, user id, terminal name, date and time.  Changes made by the System Administrator should also be detailed.
b)	The audit trail must include the data before and after the change was made, the user -id/name that performed the change and the time and date of the change.  The number of these before and after ‘snaps-shots of data’ should be unlimited. 
c)	The audit trail must include changes made to user set parameters used in analyses, calculations, and reports produced through the application.
d)	Audit trail information must show changes made on specific dates/range of dates and/or by specific user/s.  
e)	The audit trail (Log file) must be fully protected from any change, corruption or purge whether intentional or accidental.   
f)	The application must provide the ability to archive, export or clear down the audit trail when required. 
g)	A number of standard audit reports must be available that only appropriate users may access and view.  
h)	The option must be available to allow the system administrator to produce the audit trail in varying time periods of reporting and varying sorting sequences including the ability to report on a daily basis or period basis by:-
•	Specific elements;
•	User/officer name;
•	Data entry field or fields;
•	Date; and
•	Time. 

B3.25	User Interface

B3.25.2	Screen Design 

It is preferred that the system can:-

a)	Allow tailoring of screens to meet individual user requirements, ideally without the need for detailed I.T. knowledge. 
b)	And these modified screens/systems desktop and settings should be unaffected by future updates released by the Supplier.  
c)	The ability for the system administrator to change field names (i.e. label names) to commonly known equivalents to make them more meaningful for users. 

B3.25.3	Menus/Access

a)	Allow for favourite menus/screens to be set-up for specific users.
b)	Fast path access functions for experienced users to bypass menus and navigate quickly.
c)	The application must be straight forward and user friendly. 
d)	Allow input processing to be carried out, both centrally and at a devolved level. 
e)	Allow easy mobility between different screens and modules.
f)	It is preferred that the system administrator can introduce customised screens.


B3.25.4	Drop Down Lists

To reduce the chance of data entry errors and to aid consistency. The application must offer the user data entry selections from drop down lists wherever possible.

B3.25.5	Update facilities

a)	The application must allow on-line input for all data fields.  Once entered, accepted and updated, the “new” information must be immediately available to all other users (subject to security) without there being any need to “update” or “refresh” other parts of the application.
b)	The application must allow definable validation to be attached to data fields where required.
c)	The Supplier must detail all pre-programmed validation giving details of messages when data fails validation check. 

B3.25.6	Upload/Download facilities

a)	The application must prohibit bulk uploading of data from 3rd party systems unless this has been expressly permitted by the Authority and where such an upload can be fully audited by the Authority’s or their Audit partners.
b)	The application must allow for bulk download of data to third party systems only where the Authority has audited and approved the download methodology and the validity of the data to be downloaded.
c)	The application must allow for uploads and downloads of data to and from permitted sources in a variety of manners such as standard MS Office output files; comma separated variables; XML Schema, etc.  Alternative output methodology will only be permitted at the Authority’s discretion.

B3.25.7 	Search Facilities

a)	The application must be able to search all displayed fields of the database to retrieve records 
b)	Wildcard/character string search facility. 
c)	Browse forward/backwards on various screens.  
d)	The user should be able to choose when a Search is case sensitive or not. 
e)	Save as favourite searches and filters. 

B3.25.8 	System Navigation

a)	The application must be easy and straightforward to use, providing a hierarchical menu structure option for navigation between screens but enabling expert users a fast path facility to switch to different areas (subject to security restrictions).  
b)	Navigation around the application must be straightforward with no constraints to the order in which the screens are accessed (subject to security restrictions). 
c)	Full range of enquiry facilities will be required on-line.
d)	Facilities easily accessed and user friendly. 

B3.25.9	System Dates

Where a date is held, this should be configurable to be displayed / reported in the format YYYYMMDDHH: MM: SS.

B3.26	Support Requirements  


B3.26.2	Test and Training Versions

a)	During and after implementation both test and training database versions of the application must be set-up and maintained. 
b)	Both the test and training versions must be completely independent of the live system.
c)	A facility to copy queries, reports, tables, screens from the test/train version to the live version and vice versa must be provided.

B3.26.3	Help Desk

a)	The Supplier must provide telephone support via a help desk during core hours of 8:30am to 5:00pm, Monday to Friday. Support is required on user and technical problems and for advice and general information.
b)	The Supplier must provide a monthly report from the go-live date on all call activity indicating the latest position on each call. This should be followed up with facilities to further analyse calls by common issue by system.
c)	The Supplier must make available to the Authority all ‘bug’ corrections/fixes to the application as soon as these are released to other clients.
d)	The Supplier must indicate clearly the steps that would be taken should the Authority be dissatisfied with the operation or performance or other features of the Services (i.e. Change control procedures).

B3.26.4	Help Facilities

a)	The application must include online and offline (mobile devices) help available on all input fields (i.e. context sensitive).
b)	Error messages should be in plain English and provide sufficient information to allow user to take appropriate action.
c)	The application should have the ability to print help messages/screens

B3.26.5	System Manuals

a)	Full system on-line user documentation including user manuals to be provided, covering all menu, screen and field options.
b)	The on-line user documentation to be updated accordingly by the Supplier to be consistent with future general software releases.
c)	The on-line user documentation to be updated accordingly by the Supplier to be consistent with any changes made specifically for the Authority (i.e. change controls).
d)	Full system technical documentation to be provided, covering the environment in which the application operates, operation procedures, entity relationship model (including sufficient documentation to allow Super Users or Administrators to write their own queries) and a comprehensive data dictionary prior to the issue of an Acceptance Certificate.
e)	The on-line user reference documentation, which should be easy to use in both hardcopy and/or electronic format, must be provided for:-
All modules
Technical/ Operator;
Producing Ad-hoc/Standard Reports and Queries.
f)	Any other reference manuals which are available but not specified above
B3.26.5	User Groups

The Supplier may set up and coordinate appropriate user groups and/or online forums.

B3.27	Disaster Recovery and Business Continuity

a)	Not later than the start of providing the Hosting Services the  Supplier must develop, implement, operate, maintain and continuously improve a plan setting out the business continuity and disaster recovery arrangements that the Supplier must have in place throughout the term of this Contract ("Disaster Recovery and Business Continuity Plan").
b)	The Disaster Recovery and Business Continuity Plan must (without limitation):
i.	enable the continued provision of the Operational Services in accordance with this Contract in the event of a complete loss of the Services and/or in the event of a Critical Service Failure and/or in the event that the building from which the Hosting Services are provided becomes unfit or unusable for its purpose; 
ii.	ensure that no data is lost and that the integrity of all data is preserved;
iii.	provide assurance that backups for all of the application data are held in a secure and separate location from the data centre hosting the primary application database. 
iv.	permit the retrospective entry of data, with the correct date/time.
v.	contain a risk analysis;
vi.	provide for the documentation of relevant processes and procedures;
vii.	set out key contact details for the Supplier and the Authority;
viii.	identify the procedures for reverting to "normal service";
ix.	ensure the adverse impact of any service failure or disruption on the operations of the Authority is minimal;
x.	ensure that there is a process for the management of disaster recovery testing; and
xi.	be in accordance with Good Industry Practice (such as BS25777) and the Authority reasonable requirements as notified to the Supplier from time to time.  
c)	The Supplier must ensure that it is able to implement the provisions of the Disaster Recovery and Business Continuity Plan at any time during the term of this Contract following the Go-Live Date and must test the Disaster Recovery and Business Continuity Plan on a regular basis (and, in any event, within 6 months of the Go-Live Date and then not less than once in every 24 month period). The Authority must be entitled to participate in such tests as it may reasonably require.
d)	The Supplier must implement the Disaster Recovery and Business Continuity Plan with the Authority’s prior approval in the event that there is a complete loss of the Services and/or there is a Critical Service Failure and/or the building from which the Hosting Services are provided becomes unfit or unusable for its purpose.

B3.28	System Operation

a)	The application must be suitable for continuous running 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
b)	The application should allow all on-line transaction response times to be a maximum of one second for data entry and three seconds for complex updates (including calculations and/or validation) and searches at the volumes indicated.  The number of concurrent users must not affect the response time.

B3.29	Batch Processing

Using the flexibility of cloud computing approaches to minimise the effect this has on system users, this system must allow fast, efficient importing, exporting and processing of batch data, within the proposed infrastructure, without impacting performance of other elements of the integrated software solution
The system must allow for interruptions to calculations and have the ability to resume from the interruption point/time without loss of data or integrity.

B3.30	Data Input Validation

a)	The application must complete automatically data input validation checks on ‘Key’ fields, this is required to reduce input error and inconsistent data entry.
b)	All “entry required” fields must be validated at time of entry.
c)	The application must provide consistency checks.
d)	The application must have sound basic validation procedures.


The business lead must ensure that the IT requirements of other organisations, partners or users who will use this system will be met. This document can be useful as a starting point for those discussions.
